Center Align Elements
To horizontally center a block element (like <div>), use margin: auto;

Setting the width of the element will prevent it from stretching out to the edges of its container.

The element will then take up the specified width, and the remaining space will be split equally between the two margins:

Note: Center aligning has no effect if the width property is not set (or set to 100%).



Center Align Text
To just center the text inside an element, use text-align: center;



Center an Image
To center an image, use margin: auto; and make it into a block element:


Left and Right Align - Using position
One method for aligning elements is to use position: absolute;:




Note: Absolute positioned elements are removed from the normal flow, and can overlap elements.

Tip: When aligning elements with position, always define margin and padding for the <body> element. This is to avoid visual differences in different browsers.

There is also a problem with IE8 and earlier, when using position. If a container element (in our case <div class="container">) has a specified width, and the !DOCTYPE declaration is missing, IE8 and earlier versions will add a 17px margin on the right side. This seems to be space reserved for a scrollbar. So, always set the !DOCTYPE declaration when using position:


Left and Right Align - Using float
Another method for aligning elements is to use the float property:


Tip: When aligning elements with float, always define margin and padding for the <body> element. This is to avoid visual differences in different browsers.

There is also a problem with IE8 and earlier, when using float. If the !DOCTYPE declaration is missing, IE8 and earlier versions will add a 17px margin on the right side. This seems to be space reserved for a scrollbar. So, always set the !DOCTYPE declaration when using float:



Center Vertically - Using padding
There are many ways to center an element vertically in CSS. A simple solution is to use top and bottom padding:

To center both vertically and horizontally, use padding and text-align: center:


Center Vertically - Using line-height
Another trick is to use the line-height property with a value that is equal to the height property.



Center Vertically - Using position & transform
If padding and line-height is not an option, a third solution is to use positioning and the transform property: