All CSS Border Properties
Property	            Description
border	                Sets all the border properties in one declaration

border-bottom	        Sets all the bottom border properties in one declaration

border-bottom-color	Sets the color of the bottom border

border-bottom-style	Sets the style of the bottom border

border-bottom-width	Sets the width of the bottom border

border-color	        Sets the color of the four borders

border-left	        Sets all the left border properties in one declaration

border-left-color	Sets the color of the left border

border-left-style	Sets the style of the left border

border-left-width	Sets the width of the left border

border-radius	        Sets all the four border-*-radius properties for rounded corners

border-right	        Sets all the right border properties in one declaration

border-right-color	Sets the color of the right border

border-right-style	Sets the style of the right border

border-right-width	Sets the width of the right border

border-style	        Sets the style of the four borders

border-top	        Sets all the top border properties in one declaration

border-top-color	Sets the color of the top border

border-top-style	Sets the style of the top border

border-top-width	Sets the width of the top border

border-width	        Sets the width of the four borders





Border Style
The border-style property specifies what kind of border to display.

The following values are allowed:

dotted - Defines a dotted border
dashed - Defines a dashed border
solid - Defines a solid border
double - Defines a double border
groove - Defines a 3D grooved border. The effect depends on the border-color value
ridge - Defines a 3D ridged border. The effect depends on the border-color value
inset - Defines a 3D inset border. The effect depends on the border-color value
outset - Defines a 3D outset border. The effect depends on the border-color value
none - Defines no border
hidden - Defines a hidden border
The border-style property can have from one to four values (for the top border, right border, bottom border, and the left border).




Border Width
The border-width property specifies the width of the four borders.

The width can be set as a specific size (in px, pt, cm, em, etc) or by using one of the three pre-defined values: thin, medium, or thick.

The border-width property can have from one to four values (for the top border, right border, bottom border, and the left border).





Border Color
The border-color property is used to set the color of the four borders.

The color can be set by:

name - specify a color name, like "red"
Hex - specify a hex value, like "#ff0000"
RGB - specify a RGB value, like "rgb(255,0,0)"
transparent
The border-color property can have from one to four values (for the top border, right border, bottom border, and the left border). 

If border-color is not set, it inherits the color of the element.





Border - Individual Sides
From the examples above you have seen that it is possible to specify a different border for each side.

In CSS, there is also properties for specifying each of the borders (top, right, bottom, and left):






If the border-style property has four values:

border-style: dotted solid double dashed;
top border is dotted
right border is solid
bottom border is double
left border is dashed
If the border-style property has three values:

border-style: dotted solid double;
top border is dotted
right and left borders are solid
bottom border is double
If the border-style property has two values:

border-style: dotted solid;
top and bottom borders are dotted
right and left borders are solid
If the border-style property has one value:

border-style: dotted;
all four borders are dotted
The border-style property is used in the example above. However, it also works with border-width and border-color.





Border - Shorthand Property
As you can see from the examples above, there are many properties to consider when dealing with borders.

To shorten the code, it is also possible to specify all the individual border properties in one property.

The border property is a shorthand property for the following individual border properties:

border-width
border-style (required)
border-color