Example Explained
HTML) Use a container element (like <div>) and add the "tooltip" class to it. When the user mouse over this <div>, it will show the tooltip text.

The tooltip text is placed inside an inline element (like <span>) with class="tooltiptext".

CSS) The tooltip class use position:relative, which is needed to position the tooltip text (position:absolute). Note: See examples below on how to position the tooltip.

The tooltiptext class holds the actual tooltip text. It is hidden by default, and will be visible on hover (see below). We have also added some basic styles to it: 120px width, black background color, white text color, centered text, and 5px top and bottom padding.

The CSS3 border-radius property is used to add rounded corners to the tooltip text.

The :hover selector is used to show the tooltip text when the user moves the mouse over the <div> with class="tooltip".





Positioning Tooltips
In this example, the tooltip is placed to the right (left:105%) of the "hoverable" text (<div>). Also note that top:-5px is used to place it in the middle of its container element. We use the number 5 because the tooltip text has a top and bottom padding of 5px. If you increase its padding, also increase the value of the top property to ensure that it stays in the middle (if this is something you want). The same applies if you want the tooltip placed to the left.




Tooltip Arrows
To create an arrow that should appear from a specific side of the tooltip, add "empty" content after tooltip, with the pseudo-element class ::after together with the content property. The arrow itself is created using borders. This will make the tooltip look like a speech bubble.




Example Explained
Position the arrow inside the tooltip: top: 100% will place the arrow at the bottom of the tooltip. left: 50% will center the arrow.

Note: The border-width property specifies the size of the arrow. If you change this, also change the margin-left value to the same. This will keep the arrow centered.

The border-color is used to transform the content into an arrow. We set the top border to black, and the rest to transparent. If all sides were black, you would end up with a black square box.


Fade In Tooltips (Animation)
If you want to fade in the tooltip text when it is about to be visible, you can use the CSS3 transition property together with the opacity property, and go from being completely invisible to 100% visible, in a number of specified seconds