All CSS Outline Properties
Property	Description
outline	        Sets all the outline properties in one declaration
outline-color	Sets the color of an outline
outline-offset	Specifies the space between an outline and the edge or border of an element
outline-style	Sets the style of an outline
outline-width	Sets the width of an outline


CSS Outline
The CSS outline properties specify the style, color, and width of an outline.

An outline is a line that is drawn around elements (outside the borders) to make the element "stand out".

However, the outline property is different from the border property - The outline is NOT a part of an element's dimensions; the element's total width and height is not affected by the width of the outline.



Outline Style
The outline-style property specifies the style of the outline.

The outline-style property can have one of the following values:

dotted - Defines a dotted outline
dashed - Defines a dashed outline
solid - Defines a solid outline
double - Defines a double outline
groove - Defines a 3D grooved outline. The effect depends on the outline-color value
ridge - Defines a 3D ridged outline. The effect depends on the outline-color value
inset - Defines a 3D inset outline. The effect depends on the outline-color value
outset - Defines a 3D outset outline. The effect depends on the outline-color value
none - Defines no outline
hidden - Defines a hidden outline



Outline Color
The outline-color property is used to set the color of the outline.

The color can be set by:

name - specify a color name, like "red"
RGB - specify a RGB value, like "rgb(255,0,0)"
Hex - specify a hex value, like "#ff0000"
invert - performs a color inversion (which ensures that the outline is visible, regardless of color background)



Outline Width
The outline-width property specifies the width of the outline.

The width can be set as a specific size (in px, pt, cm, em, etc) or by using one of the three pre-defined values: thin, medium, or thick.




Outline - Shorthand property
To shorten the code, it is also possible to specify all the individual outline properties in one property.

The outline property is a shorthand property for the following individual outline properties:

outline-width
outline-style (required)
outline-color