All CSS Margin Properties
Property	            Description
margin	          A shorthand property for setting the margin properties in one declaration
margin-bottom	Sets the bottom margin of an element
margin-left	Sets the left margin of an element
margin-right	Sets the right margin of an element
margin-top	Sets the top margin of an element

CSS Margins
The CSS margin properties are used to generate space around elements.

The margin properties set the size of the white space outside the border.

With CSS, you have full control over the margins. There are CSS properties for setting the margin for each side of an element (top, right, bottom, and left).



Margin - Individual Sides
CSS has properties for specifying the margin for each side of an element:

margin-top
margin-right
margin-bottom
margin-left
All the margin properties can have the following values:

auto - the browser calculates the margin
length - specifies a margin in px, pt, cm, etc.
% - specifies a margin in % of the width of the containing element
inherit - specifies that the margin should be inherited from the parent element
Tip: Negative values are allowed.


Margin - Shorthand Property
To shorten the code, it is possible to specify all the margin properties in one property.

The margin property is a shorthand property for the following individual margin properties:

margin-top
margin-right
margin-bottom
margin-left



If the margin property has four values:

margin: 25px 50px 75px 100px;
top margin is 25px
right margin is 50px
bottom margin is 75px
left margin is 100px
If the margin property has three values:

margin: 25px 50px 75px;
top margin is 25px
right and left margins are 50px
bottom margin is 75px
If the margin property has two values:

margin: 25px 50px;
top and bottom margins are 25px
right and left margins are 50px
If the margin property has one value:

margin: 25px;
all four margins are 25px





The auto Value
You can set the margin property to auto to horizontally center the element within its container.

The element will then take up the specified width, and the remaining space will be split equally between the left and right margins:






Margin Collapse
Top and bottom margins of elements are sometimes collapsed into a single margin that is equal to the largest of the two margins.

This does not happen on left and right margins! Only top and bottom margins!