All CSS Pseudo Elements
Selector	Example	          Example description
::after	        p::after	Insert something after the content of each <p> element
::before	p::before	Insert something before the content of each <p> element
::first-letter	p::first-letter	Selects the first letter of each <p> element
::first-line	p::first-line	Selects the first line of each <p> element
::selection	p::selection	Selects the portion of an element that is selected by a user




What are Pseudo-Elements?
A CSS pseudo-element is used to style specified parts of an element.

For example, it can be used to:

Style the first letter, or line, of an element
Insert content before, or after, the content of an element
Syntax
The syntax of pseudo-elements:

selector::pseudo-element {
    property:value;
}



Notice the double colon notation - ::first-line versus :first-line

The double colon replaced the single-colon notation for pseudo-elements in CSS3. This was an attempt from W3C to distinguish between pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements.

The single-colon syntax was used for both pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements in CSS2 and CSS1.

For backward compatibility, the single-colon syntax is acceptable for CSS2 and CSS1 pseudo-elements.

The ::first-line Pseudo-element
The ::first-line pseudo-element is used to add a special style to the first line of a text.

Note: The ::first-line pseudo-element can only be applied to block-level elements.

The following properties apply to the ::first-line pseudo-element:

font properties
color properties
background properties
word-spacing
letter-spacing
text-decoration
vertical-align
text-transform
line-height
clear



The ::first-letter Pseudo-element
The ::first-letter pseudo-element is used to add a special style to the first letter of a text.





Note: The ::first-letter pseudo-element can only be applied to block-level elements.

The following properties apply to the ::first-letter pseudo- element: 

font properties
color properties 
background properties
margin properties
padding properties
border properties
text-decoration
vertical-align (only if "float" is "none")
text-transform
line-height
float
clear


Multiple Pseudo-elements
Several pseudo-elements can also be combined.


CSS - The ::before Pseudo-element
The ::before pseudo-element can be used to insert some content before the content of an element.



CSS - The ::after Pseudo-element
The ::after pseudo-element can be used to insert some content after the content of an element.


CSS - The ::selection Pseudo-element
The ::selection pseudo-element matches the portion of an element that is selected by a user.

The following CSS properties can be applied to ::selection: color, background, cursor, and outline.