All CSS Font Properties
Property	Description
font	        Sets all the font properties in one declaration
font-family	Specifies the font family for text
font-size	Specifies the font size of text
font-style	Specifies the font style for text
font-variant	Specifies whether or not a text should be displayed in a small-caps font
font-weight	Specifies the weight of a font






CSS Font Families
In CSS, there are two types of font family names:

generic family - a group of font families with a similar look (like "Serif" or "Monospace")
font family - a specific font family (like "Times New Roman" or "Arial")
Generic family	     Font family	              Description
Serif	           Times New Roman                    Serif fonts have small lines at the ends on some characters
                         Georgia	
                        
Sans-serif	       Arial                          "Sans" means without - these fonts do not have the lines at the ends of characters 
                        Verdana	    

Monospace	       Courier New                       All monospace characters have the same width
                      Lucida Console	                                        


Note: On computer screens, sans-serif fonts are considered easier to read than serif fonts.



Font Family
The font family of a text is set with the font-family property.

The font-family property should hold several font names as a "fallback" system. If the browser does not support the first font, it tries the next font, and so on.

Start with the font you want, and end with a generic family, to let the browser pick a similar font in the generic family, if no other fonts are available.

Note: If the name of a font family is more than one word, it must be in quotation marks, like: "Times New Roman".

More than one font family is specified in a comma-separated list:



Font Style
The font-style property is mostly used to specify italic text.

This property has three values:

normal - The text is shown normally
italic - The text is shown in italics
oblique - The text is "leaning" (oblique is very similar to italic, but less supported)



Font Size
The font-size property sets the size of the text.

Being able to manage the text size is important in web design. However, you should not use font size adjustments to make paragraphs look like headings, or headings look like paragraphs.

Always use the proper HTML tags, like <h1> - <h6> for headings and <p> for paragraphs.

The font-size value can be an absolute, or relative size.

Absolute size:

Sets the text to a specified size
Does not allow a user to change the text size in all browsers (bad for accessibility reasons)
Absolute size is useful when the physical size of the output is known
Relative size:

Sets the size relative to surrounding elements
Allows a user to change the text size in browsers
Note: If you do not specify a font size, the default size for normal text, like paragraphs, is 16px (16px=1em).




Set Font Size With Em
To allow users to resize the text (in the browser menu), many developers use em instead of pixels.

The em size unit is recommended by the W3C.

1em is equal to the current font size. The default text size in browsers is 16px. So, the default size of 1em is 16px.

The size can be calculated from pixels to em using this formula: pixels/16=em



Font Variant
The font-variant property specifies whether or not a text should be displayed in a small-caps font.

In a small-caps font, all lowercase letters are converted to uppercase letters. However, the converted uppercase letters appears in a smaller font size than the original uppercase letters in the text.